# Setting Up Postgres
I am choosing to create and connect to a local postgres db using the PostgresApp. I had been running Postgres14, but am now using this opportunity to upgrade to v17. After brushing up on [the postgres app docs](https://postgresapp.com/documentation/), I removed the old v14 and installed v17. The app is so nice, just click the init button and it's ready to go. I am using the defauls including trust mode, no pw required. But then again there will never be actual sensitive data in my dev environment. 

# Setting up Prisma
At first I was a bit intimidated because it seemed Prisma was only intended for deploying to the cloud but then I checked the docs and realized I don't have to use their cloud solution to take advantage of their ORM. So after digging a little I found the correct sections for setting up to my own local postgres instance, and later I just have to switch out my `db_url` with whatever my actual prod postgres instance is. 

```bash
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

```bash
npx prisma init --datasource-provider postgresql --output ../generated/prisma
```

Once the prisma/schema.prisma file is created, the connection URL can be added in. If the db has at least one table, or in my case, I just made a temporary test table, and ran 

```bash
npx prisma db pull
```

which introspected my db and found the test table, putting it into my prisma.schema. This confirmed that prisma was able to successfully talk to my local db, which is good enough for now.